CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Welcome to Remix! We're excited to have you contribute.

This guide will help you get started.

## Setting Up Your Environment

We develop Remix using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) on Node 24.

If you're using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), we recommend installing the [`node:test runner` extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=connor4312.nodejs-testing) for a smooth testing experience.

Once that's set up, run `pnpm install` to get all the project dependencies.

## Testing

All tests run directly from source. This makes it easy to use breakpoint debugging when running tests. This also means you should not need to run a build before running the tests.

```sh
# Run all tests
$ pnpm test
# Run the tests for a specific package
$ pnpm --filter @remix-run/headers run test
```

## Building

All packages are built using a combination of tsc and esbuild.

```sh
# Build all packages
$ pnpm run build
# Build a specific package
$ pnpm --filter @remix-run/headers run build
```

All packages are published with TypeScript types along with both ESM and CJS module formats.

## Making Changes

Packages live in the [`packages` directory](https://github.com/remix-run/remix/tree/v3/packages). At a minimum, each package includes:

- `.changes/`: Directory containing change files for the next release
- `CHANGELOG.md`: A log of what's changed
- `package.json`: Package metadata and dependencies
- `README.md`: Information about the package
- `src/`: The package's source code

When you make changes to a package, please make sure you add a few relevant tests and run the whole test suite to make sure everything still works. Then, [add a change file](#adding-a-change-file) describing your changes and [make a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request). We will take a look at it as soon as we can.

### Adding a Change File

When making changes to a package, create a markdown file in the package's `.changes/` directory following this naming convention:

```
[major|minor|patch].short-description.md
```

- `major` - Breaking changes for v1.x+ packages
- `minor` - Breaking changes for v0.x packages, new features
- `patch` - Bug fixes

#### Examples

- `major.change-something.md` - Breaking change for v1.x+ packages
- `minor.change-something.md` - Breaking change for v0.x packages
- `minor.add-something.md` - New feature
- `patch.fix-something.md` - Bug fix

#### Content Format

Write your change as a bullet point (without the leading `-` or `*`). This content will be added to the CHANGELOG during release.

```markdown
Add support for X feature

This is an optional longer explanation that will be indented
under the main bullet point in the CHANGELOG.
```

For breaking changes in v0.x packages, any change files that begin with `BREAKING CHANGE: ` will be hoisted to the top of the release notes:

```markdown
BREAKING CHANGE: Renamed `foo` option to `bar`

Migration: Update your config to use `bar` instead of `foo`.
```

#### Validation

Change files are automatically validated in CI. You can also validate them locally:

```sh
pnpm changes:validate
```

## Releases

Releases are automated via the [changes-version-pr workflow](/.github/workflows/changes-version-pr.yaml) and [publish workflow](/.github/workflows/publish.yaml).

### How It Works

1. **You push changes to `main`** with change files in `packages/*/.changes/`
2. **A "Version Packages" PR is automatically opened** (or updated if one exists)
3. **When you merge the PR**, the publish workflow detects the release commit and publishes all versioned packages to npm

The PR contains:

- Updated `package.json` versions
- Updated `CHANGELOG.md` files
- Deleted change files

### Preview a Release

To see which packages have changes and preview the release locally:

```sh
pnpm changes:preview
```

### Manual Releases

If you need to release manually (e.g., for a hotfix), you can still use the local workflow:

```sh
# Update versions, changelog, and create release commit
pnpm changes:version

# Push to trigger publish workflow
git push
```

The publish workflow detects release commits (those starting with "Release " that also have version changes in `package.json`) and handles publishing to npm, creating git tags, and creating GitHub Releases.

Commit message:

Make tag creation opt-in for `changes:version` script

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Welcome to Remix! We're excited to have you contribute.

This guide will help you get started.

## Setting Up Your Environment

We develop Remix using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) on Node 24.

If you're using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), we recommend installing the [`node:test runner` extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=connor4312.nodejs-testing) for a smooth testing experience.

Once that's set up, run `pnpm install` to get all the project dependencies.

## Testing

All tests run directly from source. This makes it easy to use breakpoint debugging when running tests. This also means you should not need to run a build before running the tests.

```sh
# Run all tests
$ pnpm test
# Run the tests for a specific package
$ pnpm --filter @remix-run/headers run test
```

## Building

All packages are built using a combination of tsc and esbuild.

```sh
# Build all packages
$ pnpm run build
# Build a specific package
$ pnpm --filter @remix-run/headers run build
```

All packages are published with TypeScript types along with both ESM and CJS module formats.

## Making Changes

Packages live in the [`packages` directory](https://github.com/remix-run/remix/tree/v3/packages). At a minimum, each package includes:

- `.changes/`: Directory containing change files for the next release
- `CHANGELOG.md`: A log of what's changed
- `package.json`: Package metadata and dependencies
- `README.md`: Information about the package
- `src/`: The package's source code

When you make changes to a package, please make sure you add a few relevant tests and run the whole test suite to make sure everything still works. Then, [add a change file](#adding-a-change-file) describing your changes and [make a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request). We will take a look at it as soon as we can.

### Adding a Change File

When making changes to a package, create a markdown file in the package's `.changes/` directory following this naming convention:

```
[major|minor|patch].short-description.md
```

- `major` - Breaking changes for v1.x+ packages
- `minor` - Breaking changes for v0.x packages, new features
- `patch` - Bug fixes

#### Examples

- `major.change-something.md` - Breaking change for v1.x+ packages
- `minor.change-something.md` - Breaking change for v0.x packages
- `minor.add-something.md` - New feature
- `patch.fix-something.md` - Bug fix

#### Content Format

Write your change as a bullet point (without the leading `-` or `*`). This content will be added to the CHANGELOG during release.

```markdown
Add support for X feature

This is an optional longer explanation that will be indented
under the main bullet point in the CHANGELOG.
```

For breaking changes in v0.x packages, any change files that begin with `BREAKING CHANGE: ` will be hoisted to the top of the release notes:

```markdown
BREAKING CHANGE: Renamed `foo` option to `bar`

Migration: Update your config to use `bar` instead of `foo`.
```

#### Validation

Change files are automatically validated in CI. You can also validate them locally:

```sh
pnpm changes:validate
```

## Releases

Releases are automated via the [changes-version-pr workflow](/.github/workflows/changes-version-pr.yaml) and [publish workflow](/.github/workflows/publish.yaml).

### How It Works

1. **You push changes to `main`** with change files in `packages/*/.changes/`
2. **A "Version Packages" PR is automatically opened** (or updated if one exists)
3. **When you merge the PR**, the publish workflow detects the release commit and publishes all versioned packages to npm, adds version tags to the commit, and publishes GitHub releases.

The PR contains:

- Updated `package.json` versions
- Updated `CHANGELOG.md` files
- Deleted change files

### Preview a Release

To see which packages have changes and preview the release locally:

```sh
pnpm changes:preview
```

### Manual Releases

If you need to release manually (e.g., for a hotfix), you can still use the local workflow:

```sh
# Update versions, changelog, and create release commit
pnpm changes:version

# Push to trigger publish workflow
git push
```

The publish workflow detects release commits (those starting with "Release " that also have version changes in `package.json`) and handles publishing to npm, creating git tags, and creating GitHub Releases.
