docs/other-api/serve.md, before:

---
title: "@remix-run/serve"
order: 3
---

# Remix App Server

Remix is designed for you to own your server, but if you don't want to set one up you can use the Remix App Server instead. It's a production-ready, but basic Node.js server built with Express. If you find you want to customize it, use the `@remix-run/express` adapter instead.

## `HOST` environment variable

You can configure the hostname for your Express app via `process.env.HOST` and that value will be passed to the internal [`app.listen`][express-listen] method when starting the server.

```shellscript nonumber
HOST=127.0.0.1 npx remix-serve build/index.js
```

```shellscript nonumber
remix-serve <server-build-path>
# e.g.
remix-serve build/index.js
```

## `PORT` environment variable

You can change the port of the server with an environment variable.

```shellscript nonumber
PORT=4000 npx remix-serve build/index.js
```

## Development Environment

Depending on `process.env.NODE_ENV`, the server will boot in development or production mode.

The `server-build-path` needs to point to the `serverBuildPath` defined in `remix.config.js`.

Because only the build artifacts (`build/`, `public/build/`) need to be deployed to production, the `remix.config.js` is not guaranteed to be available in production, so you need to tell Remix where your server build is with this option.

In development, `remix-serve` will ensure the latest code is run by purging the `require` cache for every request. This has some effects on your code you might need to be aware of:

- Any values in the module scope will be "reset"

  ```tsx lines=[1-3]
  // this will be reset for every request because the module cache was
  // cleared and this will be required brand new
  const cache = new Map();

  export async function loader({
    params,
  }: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
    if (cache.has(params.foo)) {
      return json(cache.get(params.foo));
    }

    const record = await fakeDb.stuff.find(params.foo);
    cache.set(params.foo, record);
    return json(record);
  }
  ```

  If you need a workaround for preserving cache in development, you can set up a [singleton][singleton] in your server.

- Any **module side effects** will remain in place! This may cause problems, but should probably be avoided anyway.

  ```tsx lines=[3-6]
  import { json } from "@remix-run/node"; // or cloudflare/deno

  // this starts running the moment the module is imported
  setInterval(() => {
    console.log(Date.now());
  }, 1000);

  export async function loader() {
    // ...
  }
  ```

  If you need to write your code in a way that has these types of module side effects, you should set up your own [@remix-run/express][remix-run-express] server and a tool in development like pm2-dev or nodemon to restart the server on file changes instead.

In production this doesn't happen. The server boots up and that's the end of it.

[remix-run-express]: ./adapter#createrequesthandler
[singleton]: ../guides/manual-mode#keeping-in-memory-server-state-across-rebuilds
[express-listen]: https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.listen

Commit message:

Docs: add clarity and outlines to remix-serve docs

docs/other-api/serve.md, after:

---
title: "@remix-run/serve"
order: 3
---

# Remix App Server

Remix is designed for you to own your server, but if you don't want to set one up you can use the Remix App Server instead. It's a production-ready, but basic Node.js server built with Express.

By design, we do not provide options to customize the Remix App Server because if you need to customize the underlying `express` server, we'd rather you manage the server completely instead of creating an abstraction to handle all of the possible customizations you may require. If you find you want to customize it, you should use the `@remix-run/express` adapter instead.

You can see the underlying `express` server configuration in [packages/remix-serve/cli.ts][remix-serve-code]. By default it uses the following Express middlewares (please refer to their documentation for default behaviors):

- [`compression`][compression]
- [`express.static`][express-static] (and thus [`serve-static`][serve-static])
- [`morgan`][morgan]

## `HOST` environment variable

You can configure the hostname for your Express app via `process.env.HOST` and that value will be passed to the internal [`app.listen`][express-listen] method when starting the server.

```shellscript nonumber
HOST=127.0.0.1 npx remix-serve build/index.js
```

```shellscript nonumber
remix-serve <server-build-path>
# e.g.
remix-serve build/index.js
```

## `PORT` environment variable

You can change the port of the server with an environment variable.

```shellscript nonumber
PORT=4000 npx remix-serve build/index.js
```

## Development Environment

Depending on `process.env.NODE_ENV`, the server will boot in development or production mode.

The `server-build-path` needs to point to the `serverBuildPath` defined in `remix.config.js`.

Because only the build artifacts (`build/`, `public/build/`) need to be deployed to production, the `remix.config.js` is not guaranteed to be available in production, so you need to tell Remix where your server build is with this option.

In development, `remix-serve` will ensure the latest code is run by purging the `require` cache for every request. This has some effects on your code you might need to be aware of:

- Any values in the module scope will be "reset"

  ```tsx lines=[1-3]
  // this will be reset for every request because the module cache was
  // cleared and this will be required brand new
  const cache = new Map();

  export async function loader({
    params,
  }: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
    if (cache.has(params.foo)) {
      return json(cache.get(params.foo));
    }

    const record = await fakeDb.stuff.find(params.foo);
    cache.set(params.foo, record);
    return json(record);
  }
  ```

  If you need a workaround for preserving cache in development, you can set up a [singleton][singleton] in your server.

- Any **module side effects** will remain in place! This may cause problems, but should probably be avoided anyway.

  ```tsx lines=[3-6]
  import { json } from "@remix-run/node"; // or cloudflare/deno

  // this starts running the moment the module is imported
  setInterval(() => {
    console.log(Date.now());
  }, 1000);

  export async function loader() {
    // ...
  }
  ```

  If you need to write your code in a way that has these types of module side effects, you should set up your own [@remix-run/express][remix-run-express] server and a tool in development like pm2-dev or nodemon to restart the server on file changes instead.

In production this doesn't happen. The server boots up and that's the end of it.

[remix-run-express]: ./adapter#createrequesthandler
[singleton]: ../guides/manual-mode#keeping-in-memory-server-state-across-rebuilds
[express-listen]: https://expressjs.com/en/api.html#app.listen
[remix-serve-code]: https://github.com/remix-run/remix/blob/main/packages/remix-serve/cli.ts
[compression]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/compression.html
[express-static]: https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api.html#express.static
[serve-static]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/serve-static.html
[morgan]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/morgan.html
