# v0.9.0 Release Notes

This is another major change (like 0.8) that is focused on improving the developer experience in Remix. It's a major change because it essentially changes one of our core assumptions about how people would be using Remix based on feedback we've received since we launched our supporter preview in October.

tl;dr: In version 0.9, the `data` directory is gone (as is the `dataDirectory` export in `remix.config.js`). Instead, put your `loader` and `action` functions right there in your route modules (in `app/routes`) next to your component, `headers`, and `meta`. `remix run` and `remix build` will automatically compile builds for both the server (for server rendering) and the browser. `data/global.js` is now `app/global-data.js`.

## Background

One of our main goals with Remix is that it doesn't have to own your entire stack. Sure, you could build an entire app on Remix. But if you have an existing node server, you don't have to abandon it or port everything to a new codebase when you decided to adopt Remix for your frontend. In line with this goal, Remix provides several different packages for working with various cloud providers including Architect (AWS Cloud Formation) and Vercel, and we are hard at work on many more.

We also assumed that, since Remix fits into your existing stack, we wouldn't have to handle compiling any of your backend code since you'd probably already have a build process in place. So we provided a `data` directory for all backend code. While it's technically possible to compile the backend code yourself, what this means in practice is that in order to use Remix you have to set up a separate build for `data`. And you probably don't already have a `data` directory because before Remix came along you didn't structure your code like that.

Additionally, many people are using TypeScript these days (we are!) and it's inconvenient to have separate folders for your data loaders and components when they use the same types! This caused a few of you to create a root-level `types` directory just so you could share code between `data` and `app`.

So, the assumption was that we didn't need to handle anything in the `data` directory, but based on your feedback we can see clearly this needs to change!

## Improvements

As was mentioned previously, the `data` directory is gone in 0.9. Instead of putting your `loader` and `action` functions in `data/routes`, move those functions into the same corresponding files in `app/routes` alongside your route components, `headers`, and `meta` functions. If you had a `data/global.js` file, move it to `app/global-data.js`. Then go delete your `data` directory and your `dataDirectory` export in `remix.config.js`.

When `remix run` or `remix build` runs, Remix will generate two versions of your modules: one for the server (for server rendering) and one for the browser. For the browser build, Remix will automatically strip out any code that isn't meant to run in the browser. This means that node-only code in your `loader` and `action` functions (and any `import`s that are used only by them) won't appear anywhere in the browser bundles.

So if you had this in `data/routes/team.ts`:

```ts
import type { Loader } from "@remix-run/data";

import { db } from "../db";

export let loader: Loader = async () => {
  return await db.query("select * from team");
};
```

Go ahead and move that code into `app/routes/team.tsx`:

```ts
import { useRouteData } from "@remix-run/react";
import type { Loader } from "@remix-run/data";

import { db } from "../db";

export let loader: Loader = async () => {
  return await db.query("select * from team");
};

interface TeamMember {
  name: string;
}

type Team = TeamMember[];

export default function MeetTheTeam() {
  let team = useRouteData<Team>();

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Meet the Team</h1>
      <ul>
      {team.map(member => (
        <li>{member.name}</li>
      ))}
      </ul>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Now everything you need for a single route is in one spot; the data *and* the view. And don't forget you can always associate custom `headers` and/or `meta` information with a route in this file as well.

We've been using this already on our own projects internally and it feels really great to have everything in one spot. It's difficult to overstate the importance of avoiding context switching when working with code in order to move quickly and feel productive. One of the core innovations of React was keeping the state right there in the view, which made it feel incredibly productive almost immediately. We feel like this is a similar advantage of having everything in the same file in a route.

You might also feel like this makes it a little more tricky to think about what code in this file is going to run on the server and what code is going to run in the browser. But this isn't something new. Your components have always run on both the server and in the browser. That's just one of the trade-offs of server rendering! We are hoping that it will be easy enough to just remember that anything in `loader` and `action` won't make it to the browser.

## Implementation Notes

You might be wondering how this all works behind the scenes, since any `import`s of server-only libraries like `@prisma/client` or `firebase-admin` aren't ever supposed to run in the browser.

To build this feature, we relied heavily on Rollup's built-in tree-shaking capabilities. When we run the browser build, we tell Rollup to ignore the `loader` and `action` methods in the output. We also tell it to ignore any module-level side effects, like database client initialization logic, so it aggressively prunes out the imports of any code in the module graph that is used only in `loader` and/or `action`.