---
title: entry.client
toc: false
---

# entry.client

By default, Remix will handle hydrating your app on the client for you. If you want to customize this behavior, you can run `npx remix reveal` to generate a `app/entry.client.tsx` (or `.jsx`) that will take precedence. This file is the entry point for the browser and is responsible for hydrating the markup generated by the server in your [server entry module][server_entry_module], however you can also initialize any other client-side code here.

Typically, this module uses `ReactDOM.hydrateRoot` to hydrate the markup that was already generated on the server in your [server entry module][server_entry_module].

Here's a basic example:

```tsx filename=app/entry.client.tsx
import { RemixBrowser } from "@remix-run/react";
import { startTransition, StrictMode } from "react";
import { hydrateRoot } from "react-dom/client";

startTransition(() => {
  hydrateRoot(
    document,
    <StrictMode>
      <RemixBrowser />
    </StrictMode>
  );
});
```

This is the first piece of code that runs in the browser. You can initialize client side libraries, add client only providers, etc.

## `RemixBrowser`

The `RemixBrowser` component is the top-level component of your Remix application - and will render from the [root component][root] down for the matched routes.

### `routes` prop

`RemixBrowser` accepts a single optional `routes` prop that can be used with [Remix SPA Mode][spa-mode] if you have not yet moved your routes to use the [file-based routing convention][file-based-routing] or the [`routes`][routes] config. The routes passed via this prop will be appended as additional children of your root route.

Routes defined this way are strictly client-side, so your `loader`/`action` will be internally converted to Remix `clientLoader`/`clientAction`'s.

<docs-info>This is not intended to be used as a primary method of definin routes, and is intended to be used as a migration path from a React Router `RouterProvider` application.</docs-info>

<docs-warn>If any collisions are detected from routes on the file system then a warning will be logged and the `routes` prop will be ignored.</docs-warn>

```tsx filename=entry.client.stsx
import { RemixBrowser } from "@remix-run/react";
import { startTransition, StrictMode } from "react";
import { hydrateRoot } from "react-dom/client";

const routes = [
  {
    index: true,
    loader: indexLoader,
    Component: Index,
  },
  {
    path: "/parent",
    loader: parentLoader,
    Component: Parent,
    children: [
      {
        path: "child",
        loader: childLoader,
        Component: Child,
      },
    ],
  },
];

startTransition(() => {
  hydrateRoot(
    document,
    <StrictMode>
      <RemixBrowser routes={routes} />
    </StrictMode>
  );
});
```

[root]: ./root
[server_entry_module]: ./entry.server
[spa-mode]: ../future/spa-mode
[file-based-routing]: ./routes
[routes]: ./vite-config#routes
