docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Remix Docs Home
order: 1
description: Learn how to Build Better Websites with Remix.
toc: false
hidden: true
---

# Remix Docs

<docs-warning>Just getting started with Remix? The latest version of [Remix is now React Router v7][remix-now-react-router]. If you want to use the latest framework features, you should use the [React Router docs to get started][react-router-get-started].</docs-warning>

```shellscript nonumber
npx create-remix@latest
```

<docs-cards>
  <a href="/discussion/introduction" aria-label="Technical Explanation">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-blue-brand">I'm just curious...</h4>
      <p>Start with the <span style="text-decoration:underline">Technical Explanation</span>. Remix is a new kind of web framework that we like to call "centerstack". It blends old and new web development models in a unique way that deserves some explanation!</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/start/tutorial" aria-label="Developer Blog Tutorial">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-green-brand">I want to try it out...</h4>
      <p>Spend your first few minutes with Remix in the <span style="text-decoration:underline">Tutorial</span>. It introduces the core features as quickly as possible building a little contact management app. You'll see data loading, actions, form validation, search, redirects, and more.</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/discussion/runtimes" aria-label="Runtimes, Adapters, Stacks, and Deployment">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-pink-brand">I'm in, let's go.</h4>
      <p>The <b>Discussions</b> will help you get a deep understanding of Remix. Get yourself a drink and some snacks then dive deep into building better web apps with Remix.</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/start/community" aria-label="Remix API">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-red-brand">I'm stuck!</h4>
      <p>Need help? Want to contribute? Remix is developed in the open with a helpful community. Come and see where to find us on the <b>Community</b> page, follow along with Remix development, get help, and contribute back!</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
</docs-cards>

<!--

{Add this when I'm done moving things around}

## How to Use These Docs

- **Tutorials**: These are step-by-step guides that walk you through building a specific app. They're great for getting started with Remix and learning the basics.
- **Discussions**: These help you understand Remix by diving into a topic and how various APIs work together to meet use cases or explain some behavior that might not be obvious just from the API.
- **Reference**: These are the docs for the APIs and conventions that Remix provides. They're great for looking up how to use a specific API or feature but don't contain a lot of conversation about how to use them together.
- **Guides**: They're great for learning how to use Remix in a specific way or for a specific use case.

-->

[remix-now-react-router]: https://remix.run/blog/incremental-path-to-react-19
[react-router-get-started]: https://reactrouter.com/start/framework/installation

Commit message:

Added hello world at the very top of the docs/index.md file

docs/index.md, after:

<!-- Hello world -->
# I have added Hello, world! as a heading 1 at the very top HAHAHAHAHAHAHA!
---
title: Remix Docs Home
order: 1
description: Learn how to Build Better Websites with Remix.
toc: false
hidden: true
---

# Remix Docs

<docs-warning>Just getting started with Remix? The latest version of [Remix is now React Router v7][remix-now-react-router]. If you want to use the latest framework features, you should use the [React Router docs to get started][react-router-get-started].</docs-warning>

```shellscript nonumber
npx create-remix@latest
```

<docs-cards>
  <a href="/discussion/introduction" aria-label="Technical Explanation">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-blue-brand">I'm just curious...</h4>
      <p>Start with the <span style="text-decoration:underline">Technical Explanation</span>. Remix is a new kind of web framework that we like to call "centerstack". It blends old and new web development models in a unique way that deserves some explanation!</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/start/tutorial" aria-label="Developer Blog Tutorial">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-green-brand">I want to try it out...</h4>
      <p>Spend your first few minutes with Remix in the <span style="text-decoration:underline">Tutorial</span>. It introduces the core features as quickly as possible building a little contact management app. You'll see data loading, actions, form validation, search, redirects, and more.</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/discussion/runtimes" aria-label="Runtimes, Adapters, Stacks, and Deployment">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-pink-brand">I'm in, let's go.</h4>
      <p>The <b>Discussions</b> will help you get a deep understanding of Remix. Get yourself a drink and some snacks then dive deep into building better web apps with Remix.</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
  <a href="/start/community" aria-label="Remix API">
    <docs-card>
      <h4 class="text-red-brand">I'm stuck!</h4>
      <p>Need help? Want to contribute? Remix is developed in the open with a helpful community. Come and see where to find us on the <b>Community</b> page, follow along with Remix development, get help, and contribute back!</p>
    </docs-card>
  </a>
</docs-cards>

<!--

{Add this when I'm done moving things around}

## How to Use These Docs

- **Tutorials**: These are step-by-step guides that walk you through building a specific app. They're great for getting started with Remix and learning the basics.
- **Discussions**: These help you understand Remix by diving into a topic and how various APIs work together to meet use cases or explain some behavior that might not be obvious just from the API.
- **Reference**: These are the docs for the APIs and conventions that Remix provides. They're great for looking up how to use a specific API or feature but don't contain a lot of conversation about how to use them together.
- **Guides**: They're great for learning how to use Remix in a specific way or for a specific use case.

-->

[remix-now-react-router]: https://remix.run/blog/incremental-path-to-react-19
[react-router-get-started]: https://reactrouter.com/start/framework/installation
