---
published: 2021-04-29
---

# v0.17.0 Release Notes

This release brings us a giant step closer to v1 stable by introducing a new `remix` package that you'll use in all your app code. It also removes the old compiler from `@remix-run/dev` and completely replaces it with the new one we introduced in v0.15. Finally, we introduced a new `<LiveReload>` element that replaces our `useLiveReload()` hook.

There are a few breaking changes in this release, so we have bumped the minor version accordingly. This will likely be the last release of the `0.x` series before we move to `1.x` beta releases.

## New remix Package

The major new feature in this release is the new `remix` package, which is a significant improvement in the way you use Remix in your app code. We recommend using the `remix` package for all your `import`s instead of importing directly from `@remix-run/node` and/or `@remix-run/react`. The `remix` package contains all the exports you need from both of those packages.

```tsx
// You can replace these:
// import type { LoaderFunction } from "@remix-run/node";
// import { useRouteData } from "@remix-run/react";
// With this:
import type { LoaderFunction } from "remix";
import { useRouteData } from "remix";

export let loader: LoaderFunction = () => {
  return { now: Date.now() };
};

export default function HomePage() {
  let { now } = useRouteData();
  return (
    <p>
      This page was rendered at{" "}
      {new Date(now).toLocaleString()}.
    </p>
  );
}
```

Now you don't have to remember which package to get stuff from, which was kind of a pain in the past 🤪

If you start a new app today using `npm init remix`, you will automatically get `{ "dependencies": { "remix": "*" } }` in your package.json. If you're upgrading an existing app, you'll want to add the `remix` package to your package.json `dependencies`:

```sh
$ npm add remix@*
```

## Streamlined CLI Commands

We had a proliferation of CLI commands when we introduced the new compiler in v0.15, and then again when we added our own built-in app server in v0.16. But in v0.17, it all comes into focus! 🧐

We now have 3 `remix` CLI commands:

- `remix build` - Runs the compiler and generates the build. This uses our new esbuild-based compiler, and was previously `remix build2`.
- `remix dev` - Runs the compiler in watch mode and boots the dev server for live reloading. This was previously `remix run2`.
- `remix run` - Runs the built-in application server (requires `@remix-run/serve`) + `remix dev`. This was previously `remix run3`.

These commands are designed to provide the right level of functionality in several different usage scenarios. The story goes something like this:

- If you're using `remix-serve` to deploy your app in production, use `remix run` in development. It's the same server plus everything that `remix dev` does.
- If you're using Architect/Vercel/Firebase or `@remix-run/express` in your own `node server.js`, use `remix dev` in development. You'll have to run 2 processes either in 2 separate terminal tabs or using a process manager like `pm2-dev`.

We are very happy to finally have some resolution here. It got crazy there for a second 😅

## New `<LiveReload>` Element

This release introduces a new `<LiveReload>` element that replaces the `useLiveReload()` hook we shipped in v0.16. Having an element instead of a hook is a little more ergonomic since the rules of hooks require you to always use them, but you aren't always in dev. The `<LiveReload>` element also does not require you to render a `<Scripts>` element or hydrate the page, so it works when you are developing a page without any other scripts.

If you were using `useLiveReload()` previously, replace it with a `<LiveReload>` element in the same component.

```tsx
import { LiveReload } from "remix";

export default function MyApp() {
  // Instead of this:
  // useLiveReload();

  return (
    <Document>
      <p>Welcome to the app!</p>

      {/* Use this: */}
      {process.env.NODE_ENV === "development" && (
        <LiveReload />
      )}
    </Document>
  );
}
```

We hope you enjoy this release as much as we've enjoyed making it for you. Onward to 1.0!
